Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. If we have not met before, I'm Libby. I am
a Community Manager working with Posit to help foster and grow our beautiful, wonderful
community here at the Hangout. And I'm also a Posit Academy Mentor. So I help professionals
do more with data by learning how to use R and Python. And I am joined today by my lovely
co-host Rachel. Would you like to introduce yourself?
Hi, everybody. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead Customer Marketing at Posit and started the
Hangout I think over three and a half years ago now. So so excited to see all of you here
today.
Yeah, I think it was in 2021. I was an early shower-upper to that. And I'm so thankful
to Rachel for making this happen. And we are so happy to have you joining us today.
So the Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across all of
our different industries, because many of us are from super diverse places and different
roles. And we really just want to chat about data science leadership, connect with other
people who are facing similar things that we are. And we get together almost every Thursday,
same time, same place here on Zoom.
If you are watching this recording on YouTube, and you would like to join us live, please
look in the description box below. There's going to be details for you to add it to your
calendar. I want to thank everybody who has made this the friendly and welcoming place
that it is today and continues to be. We are all super dedicated to keeping it that way.
So if you ever have feedback about your experience that you'd like to share anonymously, good
or bad, or maybe even just suggestions for who you'd like to see, or what topics you'd
like us to dive deeper on, Rachel just shared an anonymous feedback form. Please go fill
that out. We would absolutely love to hear from you on that form and also on LinkedIn
as well. And at the Hangout, we love hearing from you here in the chat today and live.
Doesn't matter your years of experience, what your title is, what industry you work in,
what languages you use or don't use. And we really encourage you to connect with each
other in the chat. So share a little bit about yourself, say hello, where you are,
what role you're in, and what you like to do for fun outside of work. And I also really
encourage you to share your LinkedIn, share a link to your website, something where people
can find you because a lot of times we don't have our full information on Zoom and we meet
wonderful people and then they disappear forever, right? If you are hiring, please share a role,
share where it's located, a little bit about it, how people can contact you. And if you
are looking for a role, please likewise let our community know what you're looking for.
There are three ways you can jump in. Today, you can raise your hand on Zoom. We will call
you. You can ask your question live. You can put your question in the Zoom chat, put a
little asterisk next to it, and Rachel or I will read it for you. Maybe you're someplace
busy, maybe your mic doesn't work. That's totally fine. And then if you wanted to ask
anonymously, there is a link to Slido where you can do that, and I think Rachel will put
that in the chat for us. All right. With all of that said, I am so excited to be joined
by our co-host today, Sophia T., Senior Director of Data Science at Penguin Random House. Sophia,
welcome. I would love for you to tell us a little bit about yourself and what you like
to do for fun outside of your work.
Hi, everyone. Thank you, Libby, for the introduction. So as she said, I'm a Senior Director at Penguin
Random House. So my team primarily deals with marketing automation as well as a bunch of
different evaluations that we do for the marketing and sales teams. So we have about 10 data
scientists in the U.S. team and a bunch of different data scientists all over the world.
And yeah, I mean, the whole team, some of them do pricing work, some of them do forecasting.
So depending on which division that they're working with primarily, they're using different
models. Outside of work, so I'm a mom of a six-year-old and a nine-year-old, so I'm
always busy at a lot of kids' birthday parties, I guess. But I also really enjoy doing art.
I recently took an intro to drawing class. I'm, you know, not great, and it's very much
still a side hustle. I should probably keep my day job. But yeah, that's what I do in addition to yoga.
Awesome. Thank you so much for sharing that. And I know that you have a pretty varied background.
I do too. I always love hearing about people's really interesting career journeys. So I think
that your background, you were in like finance and marketing and tech, and now you're in
publishing. So what drew you to data science initially, and then how did you end up in publishing?
Yeah, great question. So as you saw on my resume, you know, I started out at a hedge fund, DE Shaw.
So when I was graduating from undergrad, I actually went through kind of like the regular
recruiter process, and DE Shaw was one of those companies that came on campus. I was in
a very specific program at Northwestern called Mathematical Methods and Social Sciences,
and I double majored in econ as well. And so those were like feeder programs to a lot of
financial companies. So like the financial companies would come on campus and recruit all
these people. And so I kind of felt that like that was the track that I should go on, even though
I didn't have like a lot of passion for finance. So when I ended up at the hedge fund, you know,
I kind of felt the job was a little bit, you know, less than exciting. But you know, the pay
was great. We had so many amazing perks. You know, back then in 2007, before the crash, every single
hedge fund was just, you know, had too much money to spare. And so we went on these lavish trips
like every year, and it was great. So I spent four years there. And then finally, I said to myself,
what am I doing? Like, is this what I want to do for the rest of my life? And obviously,
the answer was no. So I really wanted to do something that was more meaningful.
And so I tried to think of like, what are my skill sets? And you know, how can I marry them with
what I truly want to do? And I felt at that time that I really wanted to help people. So I was
thinking that since I was good at math, right, I wanted to be able to apply math or statistics
to whatever new industry I ended up in. And I felt that doing a master's in statistics would
get me there. Or at least, you know, leave many doors open. So the idea of data science didn't
even cross my mind at that time. I don't think I think data science was kind of a nascent
term back then. It was more than a decade ago. And so at Yale, you know, we use a lot of R,
actually. It was like the first coding language I ever used, R and SAS. And so the first job I
got out of Yale was essentially a marketing mix agency. So we would provide our services to large
CPG companies. So, you know, companies like L'Oreal, Avon, you know, and talk to the chief
marketing officers and say, like, these are the marketing tactics that work for your company.
And, you know, how we can optimize your spend for you. So after that, I jumped over to a digital
agency where I did a mixture of marketing mix modeling, as well as digital attribution. And
digital attribution now, I think it might be called a different name, but essentially what it
is, is analyzing a consumer's touch points throughout their online journey and trying to
figure out what are the touch points that actually led to the conversion online. And you have to
understand that back in the day, it was the Wild Wild West where people could be tracked throughout
their online journey. But now I don't think it's as easy. But so that's basically what digital
attribution is. It's a giant logistic regression, like one on zero, whether they converged or not.
So after that, I got a big break and I got an in-house position at Samsung, where I was
essentially the first female data scientist in their corporate strategy team. And that was an
incredible experience for me. Thank you, Livvy. Because it was the first time I actually got to
see our recommendations being discussed in the boardroom with, you know, the CEO and all the board
and being used. So, you know, it could be as ad hoc as, like, the S7 is coming out tomorrow. Like,
tell us what are your forecasts? You know, it's just it could be anything that the CEO or the
CMO wanted at any time. So obviously, you know, it was a very fast paced job. But I think it was
also a very rewarding and eye opening one. And then I spent about two and a half years there.
And before going to Verizon, where I was the principal data scientist. So in the supply chain,
the ethos of supply chain is always how can we get the right thing to the right place at the
right time. And so my job was essentially building these giant optimization models to ensure that
every one of the 1600 stores around the United States had the right product at the right time.
And so I did that for a couple years. And then I got promoted. So I essentially
rose up to become a senior manager of the business intelligence team, where I manage about 15 people.
And so that was a big step for me in terms of, you know, management responsibility.
And then after that, I made my way to publishing and you might be wondering, why publishing?
So it's actually kind of a funny story. So my, my husband was a still is actually a lawyer for
Penguin Random House. And he happened to see a presentation from our SVP of data science and
you know, he told me that I should definitely talk to him because the things that you're doing
at Penguin Random House sound really, really interesting. And so I did. And I they happen
to have a position open at that time. And so it was sort of fortuitous. But I ended up here.
I love that. That's amazing. Thank you so much for that context. And
yeah, I'm also I'm also interested in the use cases in publishing. And there's so many
different book lovers in the hangout. And we always share favorite books in the chat.
So I was wondering if you could share about some of the problems that your team is working on now,
or maybe an example of a data science project. Yeah, definitely. Um, so one of the big things
that we're working on is automating the entire process of campaign creation. Because, you know,
Penguin Random House, and I'm sure a lot of other companies as well spend 10s of millions of
dollars in advertising every year. So the process of actually creating the campaign,
it can be very manual. And so what we've done is automate that process from the start to finish.
And so what used to be a two week long process is now a 30 minute process. So that is one of the
projects that I'm primarily on. And then the other project that I can think about is, yes, exactly
two weeks to 30 minutes. It's it's pretty incredible. So and not not only is just the
resourcing cost savings, and time savings, but the actual performance of the of those campaigns
have been equal or actually better. So that's so we're increasing the revenue and decreasing costs
at the same time. That's amazing. I don't know if you can talk more about it. If you can't give us
any more details. That's amazing. That's an enormous time savings, especially if you're
seeing the same results are better, and you're saving that much time.
Yeah, yeah. So, um, I think I'm not at liberty to talk about the more, yeah, the more AI portions
of it. But essentially, it's a mix, you can think of as a mix of automation techniques,
combining several different packages. So, you know, it's,
we'll let we'll let Marlene ask you a nosy question. Marlene, go ahead.
Yeah, so, first of all, thanks for popping on the call with us. So one of the questions I always get,
because I'm a huge advocate for automating the manual, like, I, it's just made my existence
to do something manually that could be automated. Yeah. One of the questions I always get is,
well, why should we automate this? Will it cost somebody their job? And I always say that the
time can be better spent elsewhere. But I wanted to now that I have somebody else with a use case
on a significant time savings, how do you see your team reallocating those time savings?
So we are not reallocating the time savings that are created. Because of this automation,
I think that a lot of times, the time savings are with the marketing team. So they actually
like that we're doing this, because they feel that some of these things that they're doing,
the very extremely manual things can be very repetitive, and it's not where their core
skill set is. And they really want to do the more creative things, rather than the things that are
super manual and repetitive. But I definitely feel you when you say that people are a little bit,
you know, worried about automations, because they've been doing the same thing for the last
decade or so, right? And you come in and you, you automate that away. So but I think that
rephrasing it a little bit might help. So sometimes it's about finding other opportunities
for the company, where they can add value. And so that's, I think that's where the company's
moving towards. It's like, where, where can humans add the most value, rather than doing the things
that can be automated by a machine? Good answer. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. You're welcome.
I see you've got your hand raised. And you had a great question in the chat.
Thank you. Thanks, Libby. And thank you, Sophia, for joining us, and for chatting with us today.
So my question is, is actually I hope it's interesting for the group. It's also kind of
a personal thing that niggled me many years ago when I interned at Penguin, New York City office,
down on Houston. Anyway, my question has to do with remainders. So you're so publishing has
lots of metrics that a lot of other industries don't see, and maybe, you know, wouldn't even
think of. But I actually remember working on remainders quite a lot and trying to forecast
remainders for different titles that were coming up. And so kind of tying that to a broader question
is, how has the, well, let me a little more. At the time, I was using basically very traditional
econometric modeling and forecasting modeling to try and do that with very, very bad results.
But so now I'm wondering, how has the addition or the introduction maybe of, you know,
maybe machine learning methodology and new data science tools, how has that improved
some of these forecasts that you all do, you know, with remainders, with marketing, with other things?
Yeah, so when you say remainders, I'm assuming like the stock that is left over is what you're
talking about, right? So yeah, I think that was a huge problem. And so about two years ago,
the supply chain team actually met up with us, and they had asked us to help them
improve their forecast accuracy. And so, you know, we have built a model that has drastically
improved that. So we're using, so I think, I'm not sure about when you were there, but I think
the amount of data that we're collecting now is also probably more and just like in a better
format as well. So we have information about, you know, like metadata about the author,
things that would help our forecast include like, you know, estimates from the sales teams and
things like that. So I think maybe the different variables that are going in the model is not just
more accurate, but also just more off it. So yeah, I think with machine learning,
we've been able to actually help them improve their forecast accuracy quite a bit.
Yeah, I mean, my experience was 20 years ago, so not nearly the amount of data that you all have
now. So I guess a follow-up then, because publishing is a bit of a, there are a lot of
folks that are very traditional in the way they do things, and there tends to be some institutional
inertia was my experience. And so I'm wondering how, what kind of success have you had in,
you know, helping stakeholders understand newer methods that help you forecast better or anything
like that? And how do you go about it? Yeah, no, that's a great question. So I think there's
certain divisions are more likely to want to, you know, adopt some of our machine learning
model recommendations. Others are a little bit slower, like you said, because, you know,
publishing has been around for a hundred years and, you know, they only had data scientists like
recently. So, you know, but having said that, I think that the company generally
has like a very, very much a growth mindset. I think the CEO, you know, very much encourages
us to experiment with new techniques and stay abreast of new technologies, because we definitely
don't want to be left behind, you know, in terms of all these new techniques. So
one, I think the whole company has this like culture of like innovation and experimentation.
And then two, I think that if you talk to people at their level, and you understand what is their
business, I think it makes it very much easier to make them agree with you. So try to try to
understand first what their KPIs are. And then when you're talking about your model, you can
talk about how your model meets their KPIs, because they are just as interested as you are
in driving conversions, right? So at the end of the day, if you can show with testing that
the model is actually generating more conversions, then there's no reason why they would not want to
implement your model for their own performance agreements, right? So I think that just
understanding their business and trying to understand it from their point of view is really important.
Thank you for touching on that experimentation piece, because I remember when you and I were
chatting a few weeks ago, we were talking about experimentation and like any advice you had for
people who are trying to come up with prototypes and get those things approved. But is there
anything else you want to add on the experimentation topic before we shift gears?
Yeah, I mean, I think that, you know, it's, it's always good to really do your research,
especially with new techniques and tools, people are, you know, going to be a lot more skeptical.
And if you're advocating for a tool to be used in a widespread way within your company, like,
you have to expect that the spotlight is going to be shined on it. And every single aspect of it,
from the security to legal to, you know, mark, like, everyone's going to have their own opinions.
So just make sure that you really dotted your eyes, you know, so, um, yeah.
Absolutely. How does the team give people the space to experiment?
Um, so I'm, I guess. Yeah, no, that's a great question. I think.
I think that it's sort of part of our strategy to be staying abreast of the current technology. And
so, um, there's always an ask to, you know, look at what's happening in the industry and report
back, you know, what, what exactly can be used or not used or, you know, how are other people
doing things that we may not be doing? Um, and so that, that I think is, is the best way because
like, it becomes official, it's part of your learning agreement. So, um, yeah, I think,
I think that's how we, we make sure that we're not, um, spending so much time in a day-to-day
and forget to experiment with, with new technology. Thank you, Frank. I see you
had asked a question a little bit earlier. Do you want to jump in next?
Yeah, I was just curious as you were going through those changes you were talking about
before with the model, what type of process changes were implemented and did you remove
like approvals and wait time or what was the,
what did, what did the model actually change in the process that you enabled?
Uh, are you, sorry, which model were you talking about? The one where
it went from two weeks to 30 minutes? Yeah, two weeks to three days. Yes. Or 30 minutes. Yeah,
exactly. Okay. So there is a model involved in that process, but a majority of the time
that was reduced was not because of a model. It was because of the automation.
So it was as much of a software engineering project as it was a data science one,
because essentially we automated some processes, for example, like,
creating the image that goes on the Facebook ad, right? So that used to be pieced together
manually, or we had to get, you know, a company to actually do it for us.
But now it's all automated. So that's really where the process efficiency came in.
Got it. Thank you. Yeah, sure.
Thank you for the great question. And thank you, Sophia, for the, the insights.
Oh, actually, it looks like Rachel, you have a follow up.
I was gonna ask just one follow up on the piece of automating content. Because I think something
that we had talked about before as well, which was really cool from automating it is that
you mentioned sometimes a book that is selling 10 books a week might not warrant the creative time,
or creative team time. But now that you have this new process, you've actually like unlocked
some additional capabilities for some of these books that aren't as aren't as popular, maybe?
Yeah, so that so that was for a different project that we automated, essentially, for Amazon's
product detail pages, you know, you have these advertisements that you see at the bottom when
you scroll down the page. And we automated that process to make it easier for the marketers to
basically release out these advertisements at scale. So, you know, the way that Amazon algorithm
works is sort of a black box to us. But we do know that if we have those ads at the bottom,
it does make it surface out our products more frequently. So essentially, there's no cost in
doing these advertisements. So there's no really no cost to us to get there, except for the time it
takes to create the advertisement. So that's where automations can really help.
Awesome, thank you. And that was a great, great follow up. Sophia, I am wondering,
you mentioned that your team, at least in the US was about 10 people.
Do you feel like that is a big team to you a small team? Do you feel like there are advantages
to keeping things like small or in a core group? And are you all dispersed all over the US? I'm
just curious. Yes, it is. I think it's a very small team. I mean, I think that it's all relative,
right? To like other places. Yeah. How many people? Yeah, compared to Verizon, you know,
it's a tiny team. Verizon probably has 10 data scientists just for the supply chain team.
So, you know, do the math, and it's like, probably hundreds of thousands in the entire data science
and AI organization. But I've also heard, you know, other companies, CVS, like all these healthcare
industries have a ton of data scientists, right? So I think that this would be comparatively small.
But I like, I almost think it's, in a way, a feature rather than above, because
as a director, it does free up some of more of my time, instead of managing people to actually
be innovating, like what Rachel was saying, there's a lot more time and space for me to
be looking at new technologies. So I don't mind.
I see Alan asked a great question in the chat just now to Alan, do you want to jump in now?
Yeah, I think it's good timing. I'm just back after corralling my dog, who's losing her mind
downstairs. I'm really curious, and I know we're like zeroing in on this campaign automation thing
continually. I'm really curious if you could talk more about the roles that different people
on the team perform in a project like that, because my sense, my guess is that there's like
software development kinds of things there, or there's application kind of development,
in addition to the data roles around the campaign information itself. So I'm curious if those folks
are all on your team, or if there's coordination, and what that coordination is like, and sort of
in general, like who wears what kind of hats, or sits in what kinds of roles for something that
has a broad kind of, for a project that's really broad. Yeah, so for that project specifically,
the people that sit on my team, they are in charge of the model obviously, but also software
engineering, and the whole productionizing the model as a whole. The two people that do
report to me, they're both machine learning engineers, but they are basically full-stack
engineers. They know everything from creating the model, to putting it into production. So it's a
little different from, you know, a big company like Verizon, where there's the IT department to
actually productionize your model for you, because we're such a small team, we do it ourselves.
And the actual coordination of campaigns, and things like that, all lies within the marketing
team. So there's a whole lot of collaboration between our team, and their team on a daily basis,
I would say, because we are rolling out these campaigns company-wide, and so it would definitely
not be possible without them. And you know, they have been awesome in getting support from all the
different imprints and divisions, and it's a very large company, so it's a lot of coordination.
Great, thanks. It's great that you're able to, it's got to be really empowering that you're
able to work as autonomously as you can, and right up through deployment and stuff, without
lots of process bottlenecks, or you know, handoffs to other teams. Yeah, exactly. Thank you.
Yeah, thank you, Alan. Always has like the greatest questions, and I kind of have a follow-up, and it
looks like Sonia just asked a similar question. So my question is, I feel like Sophia, you were
recently hiring for a position, I don't know if it's still open, but I know that you were looking.
So I was curious, along the lines of Alan's question, like what do you look for
in a team member, a new team member, when you're looking to build your team?
Yeah, we are looking for someone. It wouldn't be reporting directly to me, but we'll be working
very closely together, because of this project that we're just talking about. And we're looking
for this role specifically, we're looking for somebody with recommendation model experience,
preferably, but if not recommendation, any kind of ranking model would do as well.
But yeah, if anybody's interested, definitely reach out. I'm on LinkedIn, so it's pretty easy
to find me, I think. So generally, of course, one technical acumen is very important, because you
have to go through several rounds of technical interviews with some people on the team.
And then the last part, myself and another senior director on the team would also do
a behavioral interview. Essentially, we just look, you know, for a cultural fit, someone
hopefully that loves books, because it will be a little bit awkward if you're in publishing and
you hate books. But that and also just, you know, somebody who's
flexible, because, you know, we're a small team. And so sometimes, you know, you might be put on
several different projects that might not be your own. And so somebody who's just very willing to
learn and experiment with other tools as well. Thank you. Well, on the topic of loving books,
I see Joseph, you asked a question about books in the chat. Do you want to jump in?
Yeah, sure. I heard Penguin, and I was just been waiting for all the book talk.
Yeah, I'd love to hear if there, you know, what you're reading now, or if there's something that
you read recently that you had a recommendation on, and then separately, since this is the Data
Science Hangout, if you or anyone else had a good, you know, fictional book, you know, that
features data or data science, and you know, to recommend a good version of it. I'll answer your
first question, but I'll let the audience answer the second one. So the first question, I'm right
now reading Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates. I'm really enjoying it so far. You know,
growing up in Singapore, and then coming to Northwestern US, like, I feel like I live in a
little bubble. And so it's really opened my eyes to a whole new world. And I think it's just really
important to this country's discussion about race and equality. And I've been quite moved by it.
And so the second question about the data science books, does anyone in the audience have a
recommendation? This is such a great, great question. And I'm hoping to see some people's,
you know, suggestions or to chime in. Because I'm at a loss. I read a lot of fantasy books,
and like sci-fi, and I don't know if I have any data science characters I can think of.
Let me see, Sunday, did you share something? Let me see.
Yeah, I find Foundation very fascinating. And Dr. Harry Seldon, and Psychohistory. It's all stats,
you know, machine learning, analysis, that kind of thing, you know, pretty in the future. It's fun.
I love it. I love to see all these books shared in the chat here. And Libby, we should probably
reshare your collection of all the books shared in the Hangout too. Oh my gosh, it's been so long.
I need to update it. Okay, yeah, I'll go grab it. Okay, while we're talking about books, real quick,
Mauro, I see you had a question. Yes, yeah, I'm in love. I totally love
Audible books, because I can do things and enjoy and learn. So my question, I often I run out of
good books to read, because I run out of ideas, really. So I would like to ask you
for a recommendation of a process. How did you find, you know, a book that is worth your time?
Well, there is a Today's Top Books section at Penguin Random House.com that our team
put together. So it's a little bit of a shameless plug here. But Today's Top Books
basically uses, you know, a bunch of different metrics. So we look at Wikipedia page views,
Google page views, you know, Goodreads, things like that. And we compel it into a giant aggregator.
And that sort of, it's supposed to come up with the trendiest, buzziest books of the moment.
So a lot of people with book clubs, for example, would go there and find their books.
But if you sign up for our newsletter on Penguin Random House.com, you will also get personalized
book selections based on your preferences and based on your browsing history. And that, again,
comes from the data science team's recommendation model.
That's great. Thank you for sharing this. I always struggle with finding a good book club book.
Okay. That's what we had in mind when we built it.
Yeah. If it's okay, I'm going to ask maybe a little bit of a selfish question for me,
because I've been starting to work on a few more of our customer spotlights. And I was wondering,
Sophia, if you could share a little bit about the ways that you're using Posit.
Yes. So as I mentioned, you know, I've been an R user since my graduate school days. So when I
came on to Penguin Random House, one of the things that I did at first was build a giant
marketing mix model using R. And so that model really is the foundation for all of the
recommendations that we do to the marketing, sales, publicity teams, which are the tactics
that actually work. And so eventually, you know, we productionize the model. And so it's sort of
been run on a pretty regular cadence. And it's still being actively used for various sales
teams requests. So, you know, I think ours is definitely really important,
not just for discovery, but also for actually models in production.
Thank you. That's great. I realized I had been missing some of the Slido questions that people
are asking anonymously. I'm so sorry. I realized this behind the scenes stuff is a lot of work.
We're missing a few of our behind the scenes co-hosts today. So let me jump over and ask one,
and I'll copy it into the chat here. But somebody asked, what data science skills do you believe are
most important for the publishing industry? And what should potential recruits be focusing on?
Yeah. So actually, it's not too different from data science skills generally. So, you know,
obvious ones are coding skills. You know, not just, I guess, coding, but also like being organized
in your code so that when you work in a big team, your code can be shared and understood by a lot of
different people. And so if you're out or people need to make changes, you know, it's not a very
significant endeavor. And also, I would say, you know, the ability to, you know, obviously,
to productionize a model, which is not something that most data scientists have. But because of
but because, as I mentioned before, we do do the full, you know, the full stack of
actually creating the model from creating it to productionizing it, that is important for us.
And then for publishing, I mean, listen, like at the end of the day,
it doesn't matter how great your model is, if you can't explain it,
it's really hard to sell it. So I think being able to speak in plain English about what you did and
what the outcome is, and what you expect people to do about it is really important. And so it's,
you know, a simple model is sometimes just as good. But it's really about the implications
of the model that people are very interested in. And oftentimes, you know, they will ask you,
they will ask you a lot of questions, and specifics about the raw data,
some of which you may not, it may not even cross your mind as a data scientist to know,
but it's, it's helpful to have like good business context. So you know what questions to ask before
you even dive into modeling, because when you're presenting it to somebody much higher level,
they're going to expect that you know what you were doing. So it's not just about the data modeling,
definitely, it's a lot of context gathering. Thank you. That was awesome. And there's another
great side of question, which I'm curious about as well. And that is how have you found
transition from individual contributor to manager? Yeah. Um, so I, I was always worried about that,
because I thought, you know, as an individual contributor, that it's, it's so different to be
a manager and be, you know, on the podium and telling people what to do. So initially,
it was a little bit tricky. You know, especially not so much when I was at the digital agency, but
especially at Verizon, when I went from, you know, managing two people to managing 15.
And then a lot of the people on the 15 person team, you know, with decades older than me,
it doesn't help that I have sort of a baby face. And then I'm short. So, so it was like, they,
they had been there for, you know, 30 years. And here I was, like a fresh phase newbie,
like managing them. So, you know, that was a bit of a transition. But I do think that confidence
really helps. I had an amazing mentor when I was at Verizon. And one of the things he told me was
that, like, you know, just be confident, because it really, it really, you know, it's a little
silly, but what they say about fake it till you make it, it really does work. Like, if you just,
you know, believe in yourself, and you exude that confidence, people would naturally gravitate
towards you and be more willing to listen to you. But if you say everything in a very meek voice,
like, oh, please, like, you know, it's, you just kind of like you're, you're sort of just,
you know, throwing yourself under the bus, it's, you know, you might as well,
you know, not even try, because if you're not going to be if you're not going to believe in
yourself. So I think that a lot of times, one is, is really good also to have a mentor,
somebody who can see things from the outside, and tell you what you are doing wrong,
potentially, or, you know, how you can improve what you're already doing, right.
But, yeah, at the end of the day, I think that a lot of times I was thinking, what would this
person do if he was in my shoes, because you have to remember, everybody starts as an individual
contributor, right? Like nobody, I mean, unless your father's the CEO, nobody starts off as a
manager, right? So everybody starts from the same place as you. And so they have to have to overcome
the same things. And so if you were chosen to become a manager, or, you know, anything up from
there, there was a reason, right? So somebody thought that you had the capability of doing that.
So why don't you believe it in yourself? So that's sort of the process that went through my
mind. And I don't know, I just, I don't even recall why I was so nervous at that time.
Because now it's just so natural to me. I'm just, you know, it just feels like it's second nature.
I love that. Thank you so much, Sophia. I'm going to save that clip. So we can all play
that as our little pep talk for the day. I see. Well, actually, let me ask you a follow up real
quick, because you did mention the importance of finding a mentor as well. And I wanted to
talk about mentorship for a little bit. How would you recommend we go about finding a mentor?
Yeah, that's another great question. I, you know, I've been thinking about all I had thought about,
and a lot of it, I hate to say it, but a lot of it is luck.
But if you were to do a selection process, you know, obviously, it's somebody you feel that is
a little bit, you know, more pivotal in an organization who can point you to the right
resources and, you know, obviously, preferably, you know, a couple of levels above you so that,
you know, it's somebody who's been through the rungs and knows what it takes to get up there.
But actually not, I mean, it's not necessary, right? Like, it can be just somebody that you
admire, and it could be a peer that you feel that you can really learn from and who sees you and
wants to help you. So it's really about selecting somebody who you think's got your back at the end
of the day, right? So the reason why I say initially, like, it's better if it's a skip-level
person, because that person actually has the authority to bring you up with them, right? But
even if it's not that person, it's just somebody who's got your back, somebody who can see your
good qualities and so is able to bring it out in you. That's who I would select.
Thank you so much. Sunday, I see you had asked a question a bit earlier. Do you want to jump in here
next? Sure, yeah. So I remember you talking about having situations where you're asked to
do some kind of forecast or prediction and say, okay, we have a new product.
And so when you did that, sometimes there's a high stakes, okay? And then when you roll out
your model, your prediction, and then somehow the result deviates from when eventually we
get to that point and say there's a deviation. How do decision makers typically respond?
How critical have they been in your experience? Like, hey, you said this was going to happen and
it didn't go the way you said. And this might be based off some other factor that wasn't
considered something that blindsided everyone, or it might be because someone did something based
off your prediction and then it didn't happen. But have you had situations and then how do you
respond to those? Yeah, that's a good question. I don't actually manage the team that does the
forecasting. So I don't know what sort of like the day-to-day... No, I'm speaking about like
previous, like your role, I think Samsung mentioned, like, you know, your experience.
Right. Yeah. It's a little tricky. Nobody really has called out our predictions in that way.
I think that the only thing I can remember at Samsung was when we reported out on a marketing
mix model and the results weren't what the CMO thought it would be. And so she was not as happy
about the analysis done. And so she was very critical of it. Right. So, you know, I mean,
nothing happened. Like, you know, at the end of the day, like they can scream and yell
as much as they want, but the data is the data and data scientists can only tell you what the
data says. Right. But I did learn from that experience, though, you know, I'm a lot more
careful now when it comes to reporting out values to, you know, anybody, an executive team, obviously.
And, you know, you just always have to remember who you're speaking to and what that means
for data KPIs, because if you're going to be delivering news like that, you definitely want
to make sure to show that this is based on a model. So, you know, it's not that you're giving
them exact numbers. It's not a point estimate. It's, you know, it's something that has a confidence
interval. So it's very helpful to show what it what you know, what the interval might look like.
And so that they won't come back and say, hey, you didn't you didn't make exactly 100% this number,
but then you can if you give them a confidence interval, you know, you're bound to like lie
somewhere at that confidence interval. I think that's a lot more helpful than just giving them
a point estimate. Thanks. Thank you, Sophia. And somehow we have reached nine minutes at the top
of the hour. I don't know how this hour goes by so quickly. But I wanted to ask a little bit of a
career advice question from a management perspective. And that is, what steps do you take
as a leader to foster a culture of curiosity and experimentation and innovation within your team?
Or what would you like to do more of? Yeah, definitely. So within my team, I think that we,
I think I might have mentioned this before, but we actually have official things that we need
to report out on that requires us to do experimentation. So if, you know, a new tool
comes up, my manager might say, hey, can we do some research into this and compare it with all
the other tools that we have looked at before and see if this is a viable product. So the official
route, but also, I really encourage the people that work for me to go to conferences, go and,
you know, see and meet with other people and find out how they are attacking certain problems.
But obviously, you know, with the time constraints, it's not always possible.
So that's definitely something I would hope to do more in 2025.
Thank you. So I love getting to learn that the today's top books was part of the work that your
team is doing. And I see somebody else asked a question on Slido that was, what other aspects
of publishing is data science involved in at Penguin? Are there a few others you could share
that we haven't talked about yet? Yeah, I'm trying to think. You know, a lot of it is
strategy. So, for example, like, we could help with tagging authors with the occupations. So,
for example, like, if an author was, you know, also a singer versus a politician, like, which of
a politician, like, which of those occupations actually sell, which memoirs would sell more
because of their secondary occupation. So things like that, where, you know, we do sort of like,
we help automate previously very manual processes. So it really, you know, it could be a lot of
different things. But that, even though it's such a small thing, does impact, like, strategy as a
whole. So. Thank you so much. I wanted to ask another, if we can squeeze in another Slido
question. So Slido, there was a question that was, oops, I lost me. I lost my place. Okay,
so you mentioned working with new technologies. So how do you keep up with the latest technologies
and trends? And to sort of add on to that, like, what are you excited about? What new stuff are
you seeing that is getting you going? So I do, I mean, I do attend a lot of different, a variety
of different conferences, and I get invited to just a lot of different talks. And so I think
that is helpful. Definitely, you know, just reading up in the news about various things
that are happening. And then, you know, lately with ChatGBT, it's like, it's incredibly easy
to just summarize what's going on nowadays. It's, you know, it's like a cheetah's guide to
everything, right? So I've used that a bunch. And I'm just really excited to see, like,
where this is all going. As in, is everybody going to be on Google? Is everyone going to be
on ChatGBT? Like, what, where is the future leading towards? That's what I'm most excited about.
Because obviously, that's going to impact retail as a whole, right? And is OpenAI going to try to
monetize this somehow by making us pay to, you know, surface higher in the algorithm? Like,
that's all, like, very, very fascinating to me, where search is going.
Thank you so much, Sophia. I have maybe one last question here. And I haven't really fully
formed a question in my head. But when we were talking around, like the two weeks to three
minutes, or 30 minutes, I feel like that number just really sticks out for people. And a lot of
people are trying to come up with their own ROI metrics. And it's so hard to do that. And I was
just wondering, how did you go about that? Or what is the process that you use internally?
How did I go about the metrics?
Well, I guess, like, the process that you have for coming up with a metrics on your own data
science projects, because I think a lot of us want to have those numbers at the end.
But we might not think about it in the beginning.
Yeah, that's always tricky. Because I would say a lot of our projects do not have very clear KPIs
like this. But when it comes to process automations, I think it's so much easier to get those concrete
numbers. But so even for, you know, like the marketing mix analysis that I was talking about,
that's really hard to measure. Because, you know, so if the marketer says, oh, I put this
recommendation into action, like on this date, even if you were to measure it, it's still not
even if you were to measure, you know, what is the ROI pre and post recommendation being
implemented, it may not necessarily mean that that is due to your recommendation,
because there's so many other things that could have been happening, right?
So, yeah, I mean, for the marketing mix, I think it's a little bit trickier. But for process
automations, I think it just naturally is much easier to calculate the actual time savings.
So, but yeah, I mean, I do, I do make an effort to sort of every year or so I do a wrap up,
and I try to put everything into numbers on a spreadsheet, so that I can see from my point
of view, like, what is the highest priority I should be giving and who I you know, how to
allocate my resources that way. But yeah, it's not always very obvious. Sure.
Sure.
Yeah, it's just it's something that's been top of mind for me lately to think about when even
when someone comes on as a new customer, how do we help like, identify what's that first project
they're going to work on? And what's the process now? And how long did it take? And then after?
What do they get to? And what's the impact?
Right. Right. Yeah, I mean, we've been doing a bunch of I don't know if this is helpful,
but we've been doing a bunch of AB tests for one of the automations that we've done to see like,
you know, compare it to another sample size of titles. Like, and obviously, you know,
you balance it by format and division, all that stuff. Like, how did it do once we had
that advertising in place? So things like that, like, I guess would be a bit more controlled.
Thank you so much. So I know we have one minute left here. We've already talked about so much
great advice. But is there any career advice or anything left that you'd want to share with us?
Maybe some advice you'd give yourself 10 years ago?
Um,
we stumped you. I'm sorry, Sophia.
I'm trying to think of myself 10 years ago, and I'm having trouble
pulling up an image. Um, I would say, just don't be afraid of trying something new.
Um, just because I feel like a lot of times people have called me like, like too brazen,
or, you know, like, for example, like for some jobs, you know, they put on the description,
must have 10 years of experience or more. And, you know, back then I had like five years
experience. Like, I never cared about that. Don't let people tell you what you can or cannot do.
Like, you know, you, you try it. And the worst thing that can happen is that they don't accept
you. But I'm, I'm all I always think that you should be brazen a little bit when it
comes to job applications, because it's doesn't hurt to try.
Absolutely. Well, thank you so much, Sophia. This has been such a great discussion and so
lively in the chat and so many amazing questions. Thank you all so much. I,
I did want to remind everybody that next week is the last Data Science Hangout of 2024,
and we'll be joined by by Hannes at DuckDB Labs. So we'd love to see you next week as well. But
thank you so much, Sophia. And thank you all for for joining us today.
Thank you so much for having me and happy holidays to everyone.
Yes, happy holidays. And I guess I'll just really quickly add, I know some people start to join in
the end of the Hangout. So I just want to make sure everybody has it on their calendar for the
right time. And sometimes time zones get a little messed up. So if you want to re add it to your
calendar, I put the short link there, where you can just re add it, make sure it's adding it from
12 to one Eastern Time every Thursday. Well, happy holidays, everybody. Hope to see you next week to
bye, everyone.